Alignments with OpenID4VP Draft 22 (#507)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/remote-flow.rst

* **Cross Device**, the Relying Party MUST provide a QR Code which the User frames with the Wallet Instance.

Once the Wallet Instance establishes the trust with the Relying Party and evaluates the request,
the User gives the consent for the disclosure of the Digital Credentials, in the form of a Verifiable Presentation.

A High-Level description of the remote flow, from the User's perspective, is given below:

  1. the Wallet Instance obtains an URL in the Same Device flow or a QR Code containing the URL in Cross Device flow;
  2. the Wallet Instance extracts from the payload the following parameters: ``client_id``, ``request_uri``, ``state``, ``request_uri_method``;
  3. If ``request_uri_method`` is provided and set with the value ``post``, the Wallet Instance SHOULD transmit its metadata to the Relying Party's ``request_uri`` endpoint using the HTTP POST method and obtain the signed Request Object. If ``request_uri_method`` is set with the value ``get`` or not present, the Wallet Instance MUST fetch the signed Request Object using an HTTP request with method GET to the endpoint provided in the ``request_uri`` parameter;

>   4. the Wallet Instance verifies the signature of the signed Request Object, using the public key identified within the Request Object JWT header parameter to select the correct RP's public key to be used for the verify the signature;

Author: ```suggestion
  4. the Wallet Instance verifies the signature of the signed Request Object using the public key identified in the JWT header of the Request Object. Using that reference, the Wallet Instance is able to select the correct RP's public key for signature verification;
```

    - The Wallet Instance provides the Authorization Response to the Relying Party using an HTTP request with the method POST (response mode "direct_post.jwt").
  * - **21**, **22**, **23**, **24**, **25** 
    - The Relying Party verifies the Authorization Response, extracts the Wallet Attestation to establish the trust with the Wallet Solution. The Relying Party extracts the Digital Credentials and attests the trust to the Credentials Issuer and the proof of possession of the Wallet Instance about the presented Digital Credentials. Finally, the Relying Party verifies the revocation status of the presented Digital Credentials.
  * - **26** (Same Device) or **28** (Cross Device)
    - The Relying Party provides to the Wallet Instance the response about the presentation.
  * - **27** (Same Device) or **29** and **30** (Cross Device)

>     - The authentication flow is completed by following the redirection URIs provided by the Relying Party.

Author: ```suggestion
    - The authentication flow is completed by following the redirection URIs provided by Relying Party.
```

      "request_object_signing_alg_values_supported": [
        "ES256"
      ],
      "presentation_definition_uri_supported": false,
      "client_id_schemes_supported": ["https"]

>   }

Reviewer: This non-normative example must be removed as it is not updated. The correct one is in line 251 (with `wallet_metadata` and `wallet_nonce`)

    - REQUIRED. Unique identifier of the Relying Party.
  * - **request_uri**
    - REQUIRED. The HTTPs URL where the Relying Party provides the signed Request Object to the Wallet Instance.
  * - **state**
    - RECOMMENDED. A unique identifier for the current transaction generated by the Relying Party. The value SHOULD be opaque to the Wallet Instance.
  * - **request_uri_method**

>     - OPTIONAL. The HTTP method MUST be set with ``get`` or ``post``. The Wallet Instance should use this method to obtain the signed Request Object from the request_uri. If not provided or equal to ``get``, the Wallet Instance SHOULD use the HTTP method ``get``. Otherwise, the Wallet Instance SHOULD provide its metadata within the HTTP POST body encoded in ``application/json``.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - OPTIONAL. The HTTP method MUST be set with ``get`` or ``post``. The Wallet Instance should use this method to obtain the signed Request Object from the request_uri. If not provided or equal to ``get``, the Wallet Instance SHOULD use the HTTP method ``get``. Otherwise, the Wallet Instance SHOULD provide its metadata within the HTTP POST body encoded in ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded``.    
```

Author: this is about the request URI endpoint, not the redirect URI

    - REQUIRED. Unique identifier of the Relying Party.
  * - **request_uri**
    - REQUIRED. The HTTPs URL where the Relying Party provides the signed Request Object to the Wallet Instance.
  * - **state**
    - RECOMMENDED. A unique identifier for the current transaction generated by the Relying Party. The value SHOULD be opaque to the Wallet Instance.

>   * - **request_uri_method**

Reviewer: I think that the `request_uri_method` should be removed from the request object. The Wallet has already performed the GET/POST request to the  Request URI to obtain the Request Object, it does not need this info here.

>     - OPTIONAL. The HTTP method MUST be set with ``get`` or ``post``. The Wallet Instance should use this method to obtain the signed Request Object from the request_uri. If not provided or equal to ``get``, the Wallet Instance SHOULD use the HTTP method ``get``. Otherwise, the Wallet Instance SHOULD provide its metadata within the HTTP POST body encoded in ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded``.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - OPTIONAL. The HTTP method MUST be set with ``get`` or ``post``. The Wallet Instance should use this method to obtain the signed Request Object from the ``request_uri``. If not provided or equal to ``get``, the Wallet Instance SHOULD use the HTTP method ``get``. Otherwise, the Wallet Instance SHOULD provide its metadata within the HTTP POST body encoded in ``application/x-www-form-urlencoded``.    
```

.. warning::
    For security reasons and to prevent endpoint mix-up attacks, the value contained in the ``request_uri`` parameter MUST be one of those attested by a trusted third party, such as those provided in the ``openid_credential_verifier`` metadata within the ``request_uris`` parameter, obtained from the Trust Chain about the Relying Party.

.. note::

>     The state parameter in an OAuth request is optional, but it is highly recommended. It is primarily used to prevent Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) attacks by including a unique and unpredictable value that the Relying Party can verify upon receiving the response. Additionally, it helps maintain state between the request and response, such as session information or other data the Relying Party needs after the authorization process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The ``state`` parameter in an OAuth request is optional, but it is highly recommended. It is primarily used to prevent Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) attacks by including a unique and unpredictable value that the Relying Party can verify upon receiving the response. Additionally, it helps maintain state between the request and response, such as session information or other data the Relying Party needs after the authorization process.
```

When the status endpoint returns **200 OK**, it means that the User authentication is successful and the JavaScript code will use the returned location where the user-agent will be redirect to continue the navigation.

Even if an adversary were to steal the random value used in the request to the status endpoint, their user-agent would be rejected due to the missing cookie in the request.

> Request Object Details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Request URI Request
```

----------------------

> 

Author: ```suggestion

The request and its parameters are defined in Section number 5 (Authorization Request) of `OpenID4VP`_.
```

> Below a non-normative example of HTTP request made by the Wallet Instance to the Relying Party.

Reviewer: Normative details of the Request URI request are missing

Author: see my previous comment. I'd prefer to not redefine those parameters but reference the section where they are defined.

Author: I am going to include the definitions of each parameter for editorial sake

Author: Done

.. code-block:: javascript

  POST /request HTTP/1.1
  Host: client.example.org
  Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

>   wallet_metadata=%7B%22authorization_endpoint%22%3A%20%22eudiw%3A%22%2C%20%22response_types_supported%22%3A%20%5B%22vp_token%22%5D%2C%20%22response_modes_supported%22%3A%20%5B%22form_post.jwt%22%5D%2C%20%22vp_formats_supported%22%3A%20%7B%22dc%2Bsd-jwt%22%3A%20%7B%22sd-jwt_alg_values%22%3A%20%5B%22ES256%22%2C%20%22ES384%22%5D%7D%7D%2C%20%22request_object_signing_alg_values_supported%22%3A%20%5B%22ES256%22%5D%2C%20%22presentation_definition_uri_supported%22%3A%20false%7D
>   wallet_nonce=qPmxiNFCR3QTm19POc8u

Author: ```suggestion
  wallet_metadata%3D%7B%22authorization_endpoint%22%3A%20%22eudiw%3A%22%2C%20%22response_types_supported%22%3A%20%5B%22vp_token%22%5D%2C%20%22response_modes_supported%22%3A%20%5B%22form_post.jwt%22%5D%2C%20%22vp_formats_supported%22%3A%20%7B%22dc%2Bsd-jwt%22%3A%20%7B%22sd-jwt_alg_values%22%3A%20%5B%22ES256%22%2C%20%22ES384%22%5D%7D%7D%2C%20%22request_object_signing_alg_values_supported%22%3A%20%5B%22ES256%22%5D%2C%20%22presentation_definition_uri_supported%22%3A%20false%7D%2C%20wallet_nonce%3DqPmxiNFCR3QTm19POc8u
```

.. note::

  The ``wallet_nonce`` parameter is RECOMMENDED for Wallet Instances that wants to prevent reply of their http requests to the Relying Parties. 

>   When present, the RTelying Party MUST evaluate it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When present, the Relying Party MUST evaluate it.
```

> Request URI Response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Request Object Details
```

When the status endpoint returns **200 OK**, it means that the User authentication is successful and the JavaScript code will use the returned location where the user-agent will be redirect to continue the navigation.

Even if an adversary were to steal the random value used in the request to the status endpoint, their user-agent would be rejected due to the missing cookie in the request.

Request URI Request
----------------------

The request and its parameters are defined in Section number 5 (Authorization Request) of `OpenID4VP`_.
Below normative details and references about the parameters to be used by the Wallet Instance in the request.

.. list-table:: Request URI Endpoint Parameters
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Parameter
     - Description
   * - `wallet_metadata`
     - OPTIONAL. JSON object with metadata parameters. See `OpenID4VP`_, Section 9.1.
   * - `wallet_nonce`
     - RECOMMENDED. String used by Wallet Instance to prevent replay of the RP's responses. See `OpenID4VP`_, Section 9.

>    * - `presentation_definition_uri_supported`

Reviewer: I suggest to move the description of the metadata parameters in a different table, otherwise it is not clear which are parameters of the request.

Author: not sure to got this, could you give a suggestion of change?

Author: I finally got it, and make it here: https://github.com/italia/eudi-wallet-it-docs/pull/507/commits/9eb5e45d0bc8526fb0eb22e0b2e5105f5ea84033

  }
  .
  {
    "client_id": "https://relying-party.example.org",
    "response_mode": "direct_post.jwt",
    "response_type": "vp_token",

>     "dcql_query": {

Reviewer: Normative details of the DCQL query are missing

Author: here: https://github.com/italia/eudi-wallet-it-docs/pull/507/files#diff-49b422a54bf6c8ac0ba7c115989fc1e59cca9b661758d9df668df4ee8bd0d406R347

Author: for this PR we will not define DCQL query language, in future releases I am in favor of adding a section about implementative considerations, providing further clarifications. recommendation and examples all about dqcl query language use.

Author: issue created

      "credentials": [
        {

>           "id": "perdonal id data",

Author: ```suggestion
          "id": "personal id data",
```

          "format": "dc+sd-jwt",
          "meta": {
            "vct_values": [ "https://pidprovider.example.org/v1.0/personidentificationdata" ]
          },
          "claims": [
              {"path": ["given_name"]},
              {"path": ["family_name"]},

>               {"path": ["tax_id_code", "personal_administrative_number"]}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              {"path": ["personal_administrative_number"]}
```

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **client_id**
    - Unique Identifier of the Relying Party.
  * - **response_mode**
    - It MUST be set to ``direct_post.jwt``.
  * - **dcql_query**

>     - Object representing a request for a presentation of one Credential, according to the DCQL query language defined in Section 6 of `OpenID4VP`_.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Object representing a request for a presentation of Credentials, according to the DCQL query language defined in Section 6 of `OpenID4VP`_.
```

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **client_id**
    - Unique Identifier of the Relying Party.
  * - **response_mode**
    - It MUST be set to ``direct_post.jwt``.
  * - **dcql_query**
    - Object representing a request for a presentation of Credentials, according to the DCQL query language defined in Section 6 of `OpenID4VP`_.

>   * - **response_type**
>     - It MUST be set to ``vp_token``.

Author: ```suggestion
  * - **response_type**
    - It MUST be set to ``vp_token``.
  * - **wallet_nonce**
    - String value used to mitigate replay attacks of the response, as defined in Section 5.11 (Request URI Method) of `OpenID4VP`_. It MUST be present if previously provided by Wallet Instance.
```

>   * - **Name**

Reviewer: wallet_nonce is missing

Author: wallet_nonce is optional, I have added it anyway.

>     - String determining the HTTP method to be used with the `request_uri` endpoint to provide the Wallet Instance metadata to the Relying Party. The value is case-insensitive and can be set to: `get` or `post`. The GET method, as defined in [@RFC9101], involves the Wallet Instance  sending a GET request to retrieve a Request Object. The POST method involves the Wallet Instance requesting the creation of a new Request Object by sending an HTTP POST request, with its metadata, to the request URI of the Relying Party.

Reviewer: I think that the `request_uri_method` should be removed from the request object. The Wallet has already performed the GET/POST request to the Request URI to obtain the Request Object, it does not need this info here.

Author: the way we have included it in the qrcode is pretty custom and in the form of an hint to anticipate its use and then to have a more efficient flow

The place of the request_uri_method is in the request response object

Upon receiving an error response, the Wallet Instance SHOULD inform the User of the error condition in an appropriate manner. Additionally, the Wallet Instance SHOULD log the error and MAY attempt to recover from certain errors if feasible. For example, if the error is ``server_error``, the Wallet Instance MAY prompt the User to re-enter or scan a new QR code, if applicable.

.. warning::

  The current OpenID4VP specification outlines various error responses that a Wallet Instance may return to the Relying Party (Verifier) in case of faulty requests. For privacy enhancement, Wallet Instances SHOULD NOT notify the Relying Party of faulty requests in certain scenarios. This is to prevent any potential misuse of error responses that could lead to gather informations that could be exploited.

> Authorization Response Details

Reviewer: Below the reference to Section 6.3 should be updated in Section 7.3

Author: good catch, done

  * - **Name**
    - **Description**
  * - **vp_token**
    - There MUST be at least two signed presentations in this Array:

      - The requested Digital Credential (one or more, in format of SD-JWT VC)
      - The Wallet Attestation
      

>       When `presentation_definition` is used, the ``vp_token`` value is a JSON Array containing the Verifiable Presentation(s) and the `presentation_submission` MUST be also present within the reponse.

Author: ```suggestion
      When `presentation_definition` is used, the ``vp_token`` value is a JSON Array containing the Verifiable Presentation(s) and the `presentation_submission` parameter MUST be also present within the response.
```

Redirect URI
------------

When the Relying Party provides the redirect URI, the Wallet Instance MUST redirect the user-agent to the location defined in the redirect URI.
The redirect URI allows the Relying Party to continue the interaction with the End-User on the device where the Wallet Instance resides after the Wallet Instance has sent the Authorization Response to the response URI.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

The response provided by Relying Party, and the parameters and values contained in it, are defined in Section 7.2. (Response Mode "direct_post")  of the OpenID4VP specification.

```

> Redirect URI

Reviewer: Normative details of the response at the Authorization Response endpoint are missing

Author: See my suggestion below

Author: we already have normative details about the sole parameter to be provided within the response

````
The ``redirect_uri`` value MUST be used with an HTTP method GET by either the Wallet Instance or the user-agent to redirect the User to a specific RP's endpoint in order to complete the process. The value can be added as a path component, as a fragment or as a parameter to the URL according to Section 6.2 of `OpenID4VP`_. The specific entity that performs this action depends on whether the flow is Same device or Cross device.
````

Reviewer: see my suggestion

Redirect URI
------------

> When the Relying Party provides the redirect URI, the Wallet Instance MUST redirect the user-agent to the location defined in the redirect URI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As defined in Section 7.2. (Response Mode "direct_post")  of the OpenID4VP specification, if the Response URI has successfully been processed, the Relying Party MUST respond with an HTTP status code of 200, optionally with Content-Type of ``application/json`` and a JSON object in the response body containing the ``redirect_uri`` parameter. 

When the Relying Party provides the redirect URI, the Wallet Instance MUST redirect the user-agent to the location defined in the redirect URI.
```

The redirect URI allows the Relying Party to continue the interaction with the End-User on the device where the Wallet Instance resides after the Wallet Instance has sent the Authorization Response to the response URI.

> The response provided by Relying Party, and the parameters and values contained in it, are defined in Section 7.2. (Response Mode "direct_post")  of the OpenID4VP specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Redirect URI
------------

> As defined in Section 7.2. (Response Mode "direct_post")  of the OpenID4VP specification, if the Response URI has successfully been processed, the Relying Party MUST respond with an HTTP status code of 200, optionally with Content-Type of ``application/json`` and a JSON object in the response body containing the ``redirect_uri`` parameter. 

Author: ```suggestion
As defined in Section 7.2. (Response Mode "direct_post")  of the OpenID4VP specification, if the Response URI has successfully been processed, the Relying Party MUST respond with an HTTP status code of 200 and a JSON object in the response body containing the ``redirect_uri`` parameter. The Content-Type of the response SHOULD be set to ``application/json``.
```
